These are the common responses which I have received from students all across India. Once I was travelling in train. A group of students was sitting in front of me. As I interacted with some of these students,suddenely one of them asked me - "Sir, How can I control my mind, I feel very much distracted while doing anything." I consoled the student and we discussed at a length. Distractions in our life aere acommon place. In the 21st century it's geetting worse. Thus, you need to deal with the distractions. The above responses are so common, only because students don't know how to effectively deal with them. Consquently they are unable to avoid them.
	You may wonder some of us find a class boring(we are physically present but mentally absent i.e. we are distracted ), while others take keen interest in the same class. Some of us snore during derivation of a mathematical proof while some sit on the edge. Some of us just barely manage to pass and curse the teacher, whras other perform brilliantly and adore the same teacher. While I don't say that interest in asubject don't depend on our background, however the ability to keep ourseleves aloof from distractions plays a major role in deciding our responses in the learning process.
	Ability to effectively deal with distractions and focus on the goal has always been atrait of successful people, least to say of succssful students. Talent in itself is not enough! Rather even a student with average capacity can succeed if he knows how to stay focussed and keep away from  distractions.
		The first requisite for success is to develop the ability to success and aapply your mental and physical energies to the problem at hand - without growing weary.
							-Thomas Alva Edison
				What is DISTRACTION?
When our attention get diverted from the activity we want to do, we are distracted. The object, person or thought - the stimulus which divert our attention - is called distraction. Being distracted is very common , but it requires  effort to keep concentration. Often, we find, while sitting in our class our mind wonders, or duing study time we tend to do something else. Dustraction leads to waste of time and resources.bIt makes us feel frustrated and worse so, it makes us hopeless. If not paid attention to, being distracted becomes our second nature and we feel there is no way to escape it. We don't even realize that we are distracted! To get a clear picture of how often and to what extent one can be distracted ponder over the questions given in the exercise below:

Do you worry or feel sorry?
1. Why does your mind wonder when your teacher asks you to  ponder ?
2. Why do you dose off in the class although you wanna pay attention?
3. Why do you remember a song of sequence right in the middle of exam?
4. Why is it so hard to memorize  formulae?
5. Why are you more concerned about others' success while focusing on your subjects?
6. Why do you start day-dreaming when you wantt to start studying?
7. Why do you engage in unproductive habits which kill a lot of your time?
8. Why do you feel insecure even though you have been a good performer?
9. Why are you not able to catch up with pace of teachers?
10. Why do you worry and remain in anxiety?
	YOu have got the answer  -   Distraction!


DIFFERENT AGES - SAME CHALLENGES!

The first thing to be undestood in overcoming distraction is that Distraction is a choice. Distraction is not a new problem (thank GOd!). In the earlier also people lost their focus from goals (and you thought only you , on the whole planet, wre distracted!). 
	Once, while sitting in meditation, a sage named Viswamitra was trying to concentrate on his deity. He was steadfast for years. He was practicing austerities. He was determined , his eyes closed and with all sinceirity he was meditating. Probably any student with even 1% of Viswamitra's intense efforts would become a topper in any exam! On one not so fine day , he heard some sound(clink,clink), sound of ankle bells of a heavenly damsel named Menaka comig from a distance. She was sent by Indra to distract sage from his austerutues. THe anlkle bells' sound enterd the ears of sage. His imiginative fantasies fired. His senses, which were lying doormant due to long years of austerities. He opened his eyes, saw Menaka, got attracted, indulged with her and gave her a baby named Shakuntala. The poor sage later realized his mistake. 